Add Export Pipelines documentation for RUM and Product Analytics (#37498)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/product_analytics/export_pipelines.md

---
title: Export Pipelines
description: Forward your RUM and Product Analytics events to your own cloud storage for warehouse loading or long-term retention.
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "/product_analytics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Product Analytics"
- link: "/real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about RUM without Limits"
- link: "/real_user_monitoring/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Real User Monitoring"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/export-pipelines/" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!">}}
Export Pipelines is in Preview.
{{< /callout >}}

> <div class="alert alert-info">Once reaching General Availability, Export Pipelines will be a paying add-on SKU.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done, removed the alert from both the RUM and Product Analytics pages. Broader question for the docs team: both **Managed Archive** and **Export Pipelines** are going to be paid add-ons at GA, but we currently don't indicate that anywhere in the documentation. Is that something we should tackle (e.g. a standard pricing/add-on note), and if so is there an established pattern for it?

Reviewer: we generally don't reference pricing or SKU details in docs - that's handled in https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing/ and the in-product billing pages. later, if needed, we can discuss billing logic, or link to the pricing page, but marketing handles pricing communication.

## Overview

Export Pipelines stream your ingested Real User Monitoring (RUM) and Product Analytics events to a cloud storage bucket you own — Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, or Google Cloud Storage — in JSON or Parquet format.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/rum_export/rum-export-overview.png" alt="Export Pipelines list on the RUM application settings page" style="width:100%;">}}
<!-- TODO: refresh screenshot to match the current Export Pipelines UI -->

Use Export Pipelines to:
- Load your event data into your own data warehouse (such as Snowflake, BigQuery, or Databricks) for custom analytics and reporting.
- Meet compliance requirements or retain raw events for long-term archival and ad-hoc investigations.

Datadog only manages the export from your Datadog account to your cloud storage system.

## How it works

Export Pipelines is a shared feature between [Real User Monitoring][4] and [Product Analytics][5]. Pipelines are configured at two different levels:

| Scope | Source | Max pipelines | Available presets |
|---|---|---|---|
| Per application | RUM | 1 | *All RUM event types*, or *Sessions, Views & Actions only* |

> | Per application | Product Analytics | 1 | *All Product Analytics Events* |

Reviewer 2: i think it would be helpful to clarify what "All product analytics events" includes. maybe in parenthesis "(sessions, views, actions & server-side events)"

| Per organization | Product Analytics | 1 | *User and Account Profiles* |

The *User and Account Profiles* preset is limited to one pipeline per organization. Because user and profile data is shared across all your applications, creating one pipeline per application would result in duplicate records in your storage.

> Each pipeline exports continuously and independently of the others.

Reviewer 2: Can we add the export timeline expectations: "Files are exported on an hourly basis. A new partition (dt=.../hour=.../) becomes available after the hour closes and the upload completes. P99 latency from event ingestion to file availability is under 2 hours."

Author: Let's add it in the future once we have this kind of data available

## Prerequisites

- Product Analytics is enabled on the application (or RUM, or both).
- The Datadog integration for your cloud provider is set up: [Amazon Web Services][6], [Azure][7], or [Google Cloud][8].

> - Your Datadog user has the `rum_write_archives` permission. See [Role Based Access Control][1].

Reviewer: is this the correct permission name? or should it be `product_analytics_write_archives`?

Author: `rum_write_archives` is correct for Product Analytics too. There is no `product_analytics_write_archives` permission — PA export is served by the same RUM forwarding API (`rum-config`), which requires `rum_write_archives`. Verified against the permissions source and the forwarding endpoint definitions.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure Storage" %}}

1. Grant the Datadog app permission to write to your storage account.
2. On the [Storage accounts page][1], select your storage account, open **Access Control (IAM)**, and choose **Add → Add Role Assignment**.
3. Assign the **Storage Blob Data Contributor** role to the Datadog app you created when integrating with Azure, then save.

[1]: https://portal.azure.com/#blade/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google Cloud Storage" %}}

1. Grant your Datadog Google Cloud service account permission to write to your bucket.
2. On the [Google Cloud IAM Admin page][1], select your Datadog service account principal and click **Edit principal**.
3. Click **ADD ANOTHER ROLE**, select **Storage Object Admin**, and save.

[1]: https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

**Note:** If your bucket restricts network access by IP, add the webhook IP ranges from the {{< region-param key="ip_ranges_url" link="true" text="IP ranges list">}} to the allowlist.

### 4. Configure the pipeline in Datadog

> 1. In Datadog, navigate to **Digital Experience > Real User Monitoring > Manage Applications**.

Reviewer 2: for the PA doc, can maybe update this to "From Product Analytics, navigate to **App Management** in the bottom left of the navigation.

> 2. Select your application, then go to **Routing > Export Pipelines**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select your application, then go to **App Management > Export Pipelines**.
```

Reviewer: i can't seem to find Export Pipelines anywhere?

Author: Thanks! The current path is intentional: from **Product Analytics > App Management**, you select the application and then go to **Routing > Export Pipelines**. "Export Pipelines" lives under the **Routing** tab of the app's settings, not directly under App Management, so I'll keep the current wording.

Author: It's under **Routing**: App Management → select your application → **Routing > Export Pipelines**. That's why the step lists Routing rather than App Management directly.
